ImaerReader/help/source/usage.rst, before:

Usage
*****

Introduction
============
The plug-in reads IMAER gml output, generated by the AERIUS Calculator. This output contains geographical Point and Hexagon (polygon) elements with calculated emission values. 

Instructions
============

Preparing your data
-------------------

When the AERIUS Calculator has finished it will send you an email with a link to a zip file. Download the the zip file and unzip it anywhere on your system. The unzipped file will have a name similar to this: AERIUS_Calculator_20150624160359_0_Situation1.gml.

Depending on the input, the file will contain one or more calculated values of the following depositions on different locations:

- NH3
- NO2
- NOx
- PM10
- PM25

Locations are both available as points (x,y) or hexagons (six sided polygons).

Exporting your data
-------------------
As soon as your data is prepared you can launch the plug-in via it's icon or the plug-in menu. 

The interface is very straight forward. Browse to the gml file you just saved on your system. Choose whether you want to import points or hexagons (default) by checking the appropriate boxes.

Press OK to start importing.

In case of large files, QGIS might freeze for a while. Just be patient and wait for your layer to appear on the map. The plugin automatically zooms in to your data extent.

Saving your data 
----------------
Your data is added to the map as a memory layer. You can browse it during the session, but if you like to store it on your hard disk you can use the build in QGIS functionality.

- Activate your layer by clicking its name
- Go to menu: Layer -> Save as...
- Choose a filename and a format, and save

Commit message:

add progress bar for reader

ImaerReader/help/source/usage.rst, after:

Usage
*****

Introduction
============
The plug-in reads IMAER gml output, generated by the AERIUS Calculator. This output contains geographical Point and Hexagon (polygon) elements with calculated emission values. 

Instructions
============

Preparing your data
-------------------

When the AERIUS Calculator has finished it will send you an email with a link to a zip file. Download the the zip file and unzip it anywhere on your system. The unzipped file will have a name similar to this: AERIUS_Calculator_20150624160359_0_Situation1.gml.

Depending on the input, the file will contain one or more calculated values of the following depositions on different locations:

- NH3
- NO2
- NOx
- PM10
- PM25

Locations are both available as points (x,y) or hexagons (six sided polygons).

Exporting your data
-------------------
As soon as your data is prepared you can launch the plug-in via it's icon or the plug-in menu. 

The interface is very straight forward. Browse to the gml file you just saved on your system. Choose whether you want to import points or hexagons (default) by checking the appropriate boxes.

Press OK to start importing.

A progress bar on the top of your screen shows you the file is being processed. It also provides a ``cancel`` button to quit the process while reading. When finished reading (or cancelled), the plugin automatically zooms in to your data extent.

For hexagon layers, a legend will be automatically applied to your layer. It will use the first non NULL column in the attribute table to style your feature. You can change this in the Layer Style editor by picking another column.

Saving your data 
----------------
Your data is added to the map as a memory layer. You can browse it during the session, but if you like to store it on your hard disk you can use the build in QGIS functionality.

- Activate your layer by clicking its name
- Go to menu: Layer -> Save as...
- Choose a filename and a format, and save
